{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs50 \cf0 Code Aesthetics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural

\fs38 \cf0 1. Intro: Code Aesthetics
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qj
\cf0 The standard idea of code aesthetics refers to its elegance and clarity. This idea can also be extended by some more obfuscated programming practices, such as creation of \'84weird languages\'93\'a0*\'a0(or \'84esoterical programming languages\'93), double coding, coding poetry etc. Almost all of these unusual coding practices emphasize the fact that programs are written (usually textual) in a form, that is meant to be understandable and manipulable by both computers and human beings. Although programmers write code mainly in order to cause the comuter to function in desired way, such practices as code-art or live-coding accentuate another important side of the code, which is splitted from its practical use.\'a0Like any other text or language, the code has performative nature, it can be read and understood in various ways; it has a potential to creating meanings that might not have to do with its practical use obligatory. Similarly to every other information, the code is neutral and can provide multiple temporal meanings besides its practical ones (just think of coding poetry for instance).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 2. Code as Text and Cyborg-Text
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qj
\cf0 Considering the fact that code can produce its own meanings and have its own aesthetic value without being even evaluated, it might be interestig to about the role it can play being considered a pure text or being integratet into a regular text. The first thing that comes into the mind in this context is the lack of narration \'96 the lines of the code can be perceived as highly absract collection of sighns, which can be associated with concrete poetry or dada writings for instance. But even if we don\'92t have any knowlage about programming languages, there is at least one very significant difference \'96 the clear structure of written code in correspondence with some common expressions awakes a very strong feeling about its practical nature. We can feel the tension between abstract objects and they preparedness to act and communicate with each other. Instead of usual narration we perceive a lurking potential of interactive acting inside the lines of the code.\
The code expresses something active, rather then being just passive one-dimensional woven structure of narration. In written lines of the code manifests ist interactive nature. When reading the code one will irresistibly jump over different groups of the whole structure or dig through written lines rather then try tracking textual fibers to each other. The code doesn\'92t simulate this kind of interactivity one can find in some so-called hypertexts, that still operates on the same usual level of narration (even if in a bit different way). The code is a hypertext by its nature.\
Considering the fact, that even without understanding the written code one is still able to produce particular meanings from it, interpret it and read it (in different way we usualy do), one can expect, that being integrated in regular text, the code can impose an influence on its narrative nature in interesting way. It is possible to think about such an integration as a certain extension of a text body.\
Being stung by the code language, the text-body becomes a hybrid of passive text architechture and active code-machine \'96 a cybernetic textual organism. Through adding the mutating gene of the code the text replaces itself into a dimension of permanent reconstruction and recontextualisation. Going more into the details, the code acts on a text-body, as an active mechanism, which follows the process of creating the content from it while reading, in order to avoid any fixed text 
\f1 \uc0\u8213 
\f0  meanings relationship. As a result, the text-body transgresses its own narrative dimension and transforms itself into a maelstorm of endless possibilities of interpretation and links between different parts of its body.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \'85\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qj
\cf0 \'94:://I torture the blood electric molecule/::bondage-script/of the human body \'96 the medium of gene=TV \'96 boy-roid nervous system that was murdered savagely>The masses of flesh that accelerated DOWNLOAD\'bbburn up the miracle of the assassin that was sent back out to kill in the blood stream of the zirconium acidHUMAN beast\'ablike a surgeon with the hands of God\'bb//\'94\'a0**\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 ____________________\
*\'a0such as Brainfuck, Malboge, Whitespace etc.\
**\'a0Kenji Siratori \'96 \'93Blood Electric\'94 (Creation Books, 2002)\
}